Update the Next.js docs (#6236)
expo/expo: docs/pages/versions/unversioned/guides/using-nextjs.md

title: Using Next.js with Expo for Web
---

> Warning: Support for Next.js is experimental. Please open an issue at [expo-cli/issues](https://github.com/expo/expo-cli/issues) if you encountered any problems.

> [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) is a React framework that provides simple page-based routing as well as server-side rendering. To use Next.js with Expo for web you can use a library called [`@expo/next-adapter`][next-adapter] which simplifies all of the config and setup required for using Next.js with Expo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) is a React framework that provides simple page-based routing as well as server-side rendering. To use Next.js with Expo for web we recommend that you use a library called [`@expo/next-adapter`][next-adapter] to handle the configuration and integration of the tools.
```

Using Expo with Next.js means you can share all of your existing components and APIs across your mobile and web. Next.js has it's own Webpack config so **you'll need to start your web projects with the `next-cli` and not with `expo start:web`.**

> Next.js can only be used with Expo for web, this doesn't provide SSR for native apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 💡 Next.js can only be used with Expo for web, this doesn't provide Server-Side Rendering (SSR) for native apps.
```

Author: nice

- [🏁 Setup](#-setup)
  * [Expo projects with Next.js](#expo-projects-with-nextjs)
  * [Next.js projects with Expo](#nextjs-projects-with-expo)
  * [Shared steps](#shared-steps)
  * [Offline support](#offline-support)
  * [Using a custom server](#using-a-custom-server)
  * [Handle server requests](#handle-server-requests)
  * [Web push notifications support](#web-push-notifications-support)
- [API](#api)
  * [Config](#config)
    + [`withExpo`](#withexpo)
  * [Document](#document)
    + [Customizing the Document](#customizing-the-document)
  * [Server](#server)
    + [`startServerAsync`](#startserverasync)
    + [`createServerAsync`](#createserverasync)
    + [`handleRequest`](#handlerequest)
- [Limitations](#limitations-or-differences-comparing-to-the-default-expo-for-web)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## 🏁 Setup

### Expo projects with Next.js

> Using SSR for web in your universal project. This is preferred because you'll get full access to both tools features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this approach you would be using SSR for web in your universal project. This is the recommended path because it gives you full access to the features of Expo and Next.js.
```

<details><summary>Instructions</summary>
<p>

- Bootstrap your project with Expo - `expo init --template blank`
- Install - `yarn add next @expo/next-adapter`
- Create a front page for your Next project with `mkdir pages; cp App.js pages/index.js`
- Follow the shared steps

</p>
</details>

### Next.js projects with Expo

> If you want to use Expo components in your web-only project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This approach is useful if you want to use Expo components in your web-only project.
```

<details><summary>Instructions</summary>
<p>

- Bootstrap your project with Next.js - `npx create-next-app`
- Install - `yarn add react-native-web @expo/next-adapter && yarn add -D babel-preset-expo`
- Follow the shared steps

</p>
</details>

### Shared steps

After following the project specific setup do these:

<details><summary>Instructions</summary>
<p>

- Re-export the custom `Document` component in the `pages/_document.js` file of your Next.js project. This will ensure `react-native-web` styling works.
  - Create file - `mkdir pages; touch pages/_document.js` 

  `pages/_document.js`

  ```js
  import Document from '@expo/next-adapter/document';

  export default Document;
  ```

> - Create a `babel.config.js` and use the Expo Babel preset ([`babel-preset-expo`](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/master/packages/babel-preset-expo))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create a `babel.config.js` and use [`babel-preset-expo`](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/master/packages/babel-preset-expo).
```

  - You installed this earlier with `yarn add -D babel-preset-expo`

  `babel.config.js`

  ```js
  module.exports = function(api) {
    // Detect web usage (this may change in the future if Next.js changes the loader to `next-babel-loader`)
    const isWeb = api.caller(caller => caller && caller.name === 'babel-loader');

    return {
      presets: [
        'babel-preset-expo',
        // Only use next in the browser, it'll break your native project/
        isWeb && 'next/babel',
      ].filter(Boolean),
    };
  };
  ```

- Update the Next.js `next.config.js` file to support loading React Native and Expo packages:
  `next.config.js`

  ```js
  const { withExpo } = require('@expo/next-adapter');

  module.exports = withExpo({
    projectRoot: __dirname,
  });
  ```

- You can now start your Next.js project with `yarn next dev` 🎉

</p>
</details>

### Offline support

> Unlike the default Expo for web workflow, Workbox and PWA are not supported by default. Here you can learn how to use the plugin [next-offline][next-offline] to get offline support in your Next.js + Expo app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike the default Expo for web workflow, Workbox and PWA are not supported out of the box. Here you can learn how to use the plugin [next-offline][next-offline] to get offline support in your Next.js + Expo app.
```
